We've discussed a few methods for
balancing exploration
and exploitation.
Because we are estimating
our action values
from sampled rewards,
there is inherent uncertainty
in the accuracy of our estimate.
We explored to reduce
this uncertainty so
that we can make
better decisions in the future.
In this video, we will discuss
another method for
selecting actions to
balance between exploration
and exploitation called UCB.
By the end of this video,
you will understand how
upper-confidence bound
action selection
uses uncertainty in the
estimates to drive exploration.
Recall the Epsilon-greedy
action selection method
that we discussed previously.
This method uses exploratory
actions epsilon
percentage of the time.
The exploratory actions
are selected
uniformly. Can we do better?
If we had a notion of uncertainty
in our value estimates,
we could potentially select
actions in a more
intelligent way.
What does it mean to have
uncertainty in the estimates?
Q of a here represents our
current estimate for action A.
These brackets represent
a confidence interval
around Q star of A.
They say we are
confident that the value
of action A lies
somewhere in this region.
For instance, we believe
it maybe here or here.
The left bracket is
called the lower bound,
and the right is the upper bound.
The region in between is
the confidence interval which
represents our uncertainty.
If this region is very small,
we are very certain
that the value of
action A is near
our estimated value.
If the region is large,
we are uncertain
that the value of
action A is near or
estimated value.
In UCB, we follow
the principle of
optimism in the face
of uncertainty.
This simply means that if we
are uncertain about something,
we should optimistically
assume that it is good.
For instance, say we have
these three actions with
associated uncertainties,
our agent has no idea
which is best.
So it optimistically picks
the action that has the
highest upper bound.
This makes sense
because either it does
have the highest value
and we get good reward,
or by taking it we get to
learn about an action we
know least about like
the example on the slide.
Let's let the algorithm
pick one more action.
This time Q2 has
the highest upper-confidence
bound because it's
estimated value is highest,
even though
the interval is small.
We can use upper-confidence
bounds to select
actions using
the following formula;
we will select
the action that has
the highest estimated value plus
our upper-confidence
bound exploration term.
The upper-bound term
can be broken into
three parts as we will
see in the next slide.
The C parameter as
a user-specified parameter that
controls the amount
of exploration.
We can clearly see here how UCB
combines exploration
and exploitation.
The first term in the sum
represents the exploitation part,
and the second term represents
the exploration part.
Let's look at
a couple of examples
of the exploration term.
Let's say we've taken
10,000 steps so far.
Imagine we've selected
action A 5,000 times.
The uncertainty term here will be
0.043 times the constant
C. If instead we had only
selected action A 100 times,
the uncertainty term
would be 10 times larger.
Let's investigate
the performance of
upper-confidence bound
action selection
using the 10-armed Testbed.
We will use the same
setup as before.
The Q star values for
these actions are normally
distributed with mean zero
and standard deviation one.
The rewards are sampled from
a univariance normal
with mean Q star.
As before, we will average
over 2,000 independent runs.
To compare UCB to
Epsilon-greedy on
the 10-armed bed
problem we said C
equal to two for UCB and so
epsilon equal to 0.1
for Epsilon-greedy.
Here we see that UCB
obtains greater reward on
average than Epsilon-greedy
after about 100 times steps.
Initially, UCB explores more
to systematically
reduce uncertainty.
UCB's exploration reduces
over time whereas
Epsilon-greedy continues to take
a random action
10 percent of the time.
In this video, we discussed
upper-confidence bound
action selection,
which uses uncertainty
in the value estimates
to balance exploration
and exploitation.